<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_mkp_m12_5s">
    <title>Set up TCP tunnels over SSH using PuTTY</title>
    <?oxy_comment_start author="cmihai" timestamp="20150731T145717-0400" comment="Rewrite this text completely"?>
    <shortdesc><?oxy_comment_end?>SSH can be used to perform TCP port forwarding. One use case for
        this would be securely connecting to a VNC or RDP server over an encrypted SSH
        tunnel.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author>Mihai Criveti</author>
        <copyright>
            <copyryear year="2015"/>
            <copyrholder>Mihai Criveti</copyrholder>
        </copyright>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2015-07-23"/>
            <revised modified="2015-07-27"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <category>SSH</category>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>Tunnel</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <prereq>We assume that you have setup SSH keys as described in <xref
                href="Generate-SSH-Keys-with-PuTTYgen.dita"/>.</prereq>
        <context>You can tunnel other types of network traffic through an encrypted SSH tunnel using
            TCP port forwarding over your SSH session. The following steps describe how to forward a
            single port (such as 3390), commonly used for RDP from your instance to your local
            machine.</context>
        <steps id="steps_h4x_cfk_5s">
            <step>
                <cmd>Start PuTTY. In the <uicontrol>hostname</uicontrol> field, type the Public IP
                    address of your Linux instance.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd importance="recommended">In Category box, click SSH, select the Compression
                    checkbox.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Expand SSH and click Auth. Load your encrypted key (.PPK format) by clicking
                    Browse and navigating to the location where you .PPK key is stored.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Click Tunnel. Then, select a Source port to be used on your local machine (for
                    example, 3390 in case you want to use RDP. You cannot use 3389 as default port
                    of RDP because it is used by your local machine in case your machine is running
                    on Windows) and a Destination to be forwarded (for example,
                    10.10.10.23:3389).</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Click Session from Category box. Add a name to your session, save your settings
                    and click Open.</cmd>
                <info>
                    <note>You may forward multiple ports on any one connection. You can have
                        multiple static and dynamic port forwarding on the same session.</note>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Connect to RDP through 127.0.0.2:3390 (the port which was configured in step
                    4).</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <result/>
        <postreq>For additional details and uses additional uses (such as forwarding a port from
            your machine or using dynamic port forwarding) see The Tunnels panel section of the
            PuTTY User Manual.</postreq>
    </taskbody>
    <related-links/>
</task>
