<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="task_rld_l12_5s">
    <title>Upload your public key to an existing server</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <prolog>
        <author>Mihai Criveti</author>
        <copyright>
            <copyryear year="2015"/>
            <copyrholder>Mihai Criveti</copyrholder>
        </copyright>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2015-07-23"/>
            <revised modified="2015-07-27"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <category>SSH</category>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>authorized_keys</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <prereq>You need a private key, a public key in OpenSSH format, an existing Linux server
            instance that you can access with a username and password. <note>This is the password usually
                set during OS installation.</note><note type="important">As a best practice, you should first
                create a non-privileged username and password, as described in <xref
                    href="../../SSHD/tasks/Create-a-regular-user-account.dita"/>, and <xref
                    href="../../SSHD/tasks/Configure-sudo-for-your-user.dita"/>.</note></prereq>
        <context/>
        <steps id="steps_abj_2gl_5s">
            <step>
                <cmd>Log into your instance as described in <xref
                        href="Connect-to-your-instance-using-PuTTY.dita"/>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Add your <keyword>OpenSSH</keyword> format public key in the
                        <filepath>~/.ssh/authorized_key</filepath> file.</cmd>
                <info>
                    <note>We are adding a SSH-2 public key, thus we are using the
                            <filepath>authorized_keys2</filepath> file.</note>
                </info>
                <stepxmp><codeblock>[[ -d ~/.ssh ]] || mkdir -p ~/.ssh # Create the ~/.ssh directory if it does not exist
$EDITOR ~/.ssh/authorized_keys # Use the configured editor to create or edit the authorized_hosts file
</codeblock>Place
                    your public key in this file. This looks similar
                    to:<screen>ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAAD[more text here] cmihai@ADMINIB-QTA7GRE</screen></stepxmp>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Set restrictive permissions on the <filepath>authorized_keys</filepath> file
                    and the ~/.ssh directory.</cmd>
                <stepxmp><codeblock>chown -R $USER: ~/.ssh
chmod 700 ~/.ssh
chmod 400 ~/.ssh/id_rsa
chmod 644 ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub 
chmod 644 ~/.ssh/authorized_keys ~/.ssh/known_hosts</codeblock><note>Permissions
                        should normally be:<ul id="ul_nq5_j5h_ws">
                            <li>SSH Directory: ~/.ssh -> 700 (drwx------)</li>
                            <li>Public keys: ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub -> 644 (-rw-r--r--)</li>
                            <li>Private keys: ~/.ssh/id_rsa -> 400 (-r--------)</li>
                            <li>known_hosts: 644</li>
                            <li>Owner and group: your user / your group</li>
                            <li>Permissions on your home folder should not allow rw by group /
                                other</li>
                        </ul></note>If you see a screen like this, then the permissions are too
                    open:<screen>@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
@         WARNING: UNPROTECTED PRIVATE KEY FILE!          @
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
Permissions 0644 for '/home/cmihai/.ssh/id_rsa' are too open.
It is recommended that your private key files are NOT accessible by others.
This private key will be ignored.</screen></stepxmp>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <result>You have uploaded your <keyword>public key</keyword> associated with your
                <keyword>private key</keyword> to your instance.</result>
        <postreq>You can now <xref
                href="Connect-to-your-instance-via-SSH-using-PuTTY-and-SSH-Keys.dita"/>.</postreq>
    </taskbody>
    <related-links>
        <link href="http://superuser.com/questions/215504/permissions-on-private-key-in-ssh-folder"
            format="html" scope="external">
            <linktext>SuperUser - Permissions on private key in .ssh folder</linktext>
        </link>
    </related-links>
</task>
